% A failure blog
% failure-blog
% 11/19

>Okay, so I'm not writing as much as I should in this little blog or journal 
>or what-have-you.  And I've been thinking about failure lately, since I 
>attended Failure Fest (an event put on by Baton Rouge non-profit 
>[Metromorphosis][]) in an attempt to cover it for NPR, which I think is going 
>to also be a failure.
>
>A major theme of Failure Fest was the stigma surrounding failure, and the 
>fact that nobody really broadcasts their failures or even talks about them 
>except in hushed tones, which ultimately makes us feel more alone in our 
>failures because we think we're the only ones fucking up.  But the fact is, 
>every one fails all the time---in fact, one of the people at Failure Fest 
>talked about how he fails every day---and we should use that failure to help 
>each other know we're not alone in it.
>
>So that's been knocking around in my head since yesterday afternoon, and then 
>today I read another article about how [quitting Facebook makes you 
>happier][] because every body only posts the good stuff from their lives on 
>there, and that makes a kind of wind-tunnel that blows us over as we read it.  
>So that's when I remembered a little idea I had during Failure Fest that I'm 
>going to start today: I'm going to write a daily failure blog.
>
>Each evening, I'm going to reflect on my day and write about a failure I've 
>experienced.  It can be big or small, work- or personal- or whatever-related, 
>but it'll be a failure.  I'll write an honest appraisal of what happened, how 
>I failed, and how I can learn or move forward tomorrow.  I think it'll be 
>challenging, but I hope after a minute it'll be fun.  The first one is 
>included below.

[Metromorphosis]: http://metromorphosis.net/
[Quitting Facebook makes you happier]: http://qz.com/546799/a-study-forced-people-to-quit-facebook-and-they-were-happier-for-it/

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Okay, so I work for a company that caters football games.  We get a lot of 
food shipments, obviously (the stadium is one of the largest in college 
football), and we have these pallet jacks to cart around the pallets of food 
we get shipped in.  We had a shipment today, and I went down to the shipping 
dock to help bring all the stuff in.  I wondered if I should take a pallet 
jack with me, but they already had one down there so I figured that was 
enough.

I get down to the ground floor and the first thing I'm asked to do is run back 
upstairs and get a pallet jack.  Okay, there's a small failure there---I 
didn't anticipate needs.  But it's not a big deal and besides I'm not the boss 
and nobody knew I'd thought of it anyway, so cool.  I head back up and get it 
and come back down.  By the time I'm back down, a pallet is loaded and it's 
ready to go into the elevator, so I get the pallet jack in there, jack it up, 
and it's good to go.

I don't know if you've ever seen a pallet jack, so here's a picture: ![pallet 
jack](http://handtrucks2go.com/images/C/economy%20pallet2.jpg)  It's steered 
with the handle there, which turns about 180 degrees so that the pallet can be 
pretty much rotated in place, which is useful but not when you're trying to 
drive the damn thing.  I haven't had a lot of experience with a pallet jack so 
I'm struggling a little bit anyway, and I'm taking it slow because I don't 
want to throw it into the middle of the elevator, I want it on the side to 
make more room for the other pallets that're going in there.  I'm trying to 
guide it in, like.

The freight elevator, however, has this little gap between it and the floor 
(you know, so it can move between floors), and that little gap is just the 
right size for a wheel to get stuck in.  You have to really push the pallet 
jack to get it over that hole and into the elevator.  Because I was taking it 
easy, I wasn't going fast enough and the wheel got stuck.  And I couldn't get 
it out.

I weigh about one forty-five, one fifty pounds, and I'm not bragging about 
that.  I'm 6'2" tall, and I'm a bean pole.  I have been since forever, and 
while it was okay to be a small kid or a skinny teenager, I'm twenty-five now 
and there are times I feel pretty puny, or that I'm not so "manly" as I should 
be (and I know that's a whole other issue about masculinity and gender 
expression and all sorts of things, but it's how I feel, so).  And I'm with 
this cart that has about 700 pounds of meat or whatever on it.  So I'm pushing 
and pulling and trying to rock the cart's wheel off this little one-inch gap, 
and there's a mass issue, pure and simple.  I do not weigh enough to get the 
cart out of the gap, and another guy---a sturdier-built guy---has to come and 
take the cart out of the gap for me.  And while in my head I know that's a 
mass issue, in the moment I felt like I was not enough of a man for this 
job---and that, by extension, since being a "man" is a large part of my 
identity, I disconnected from a large part of myself in that moment.  Isn't 
there something, maybe in Lacan or somewhere, about that disconnect?  I can't 
remember.

But that's what happened---that's my failure for today.  I couldn't get a cart 
out of a gap.  But really, and this is only occurring to me as I write this, I 
maybe put too much weight in my identity in being a "man" or "manly" or 
what-have-you.  Maybe.  But I think, going forward, I'm going to try not to 
put so much weight on that feeling.  I could work out or bulk up to fix the 
mass problem I had today, but I think the base issue is seeing myself in 
what's ultimately an unhealthy way, even if it's only a little unhealthy.  So 
yeah.  Day one down.
