% Missing the connection
% missed-connection
% 11/22

(So I've decided to start posting these the day after, preferably in the 
morning, for reasons.  FYI.)

Yesterday, I got to drive down to Kenner to cover [David Vitter][]'s campaign 
"event" (I hesitate saying "party" because (1) he didn't win and (2) it wasn't 
too festive, probably because of (1)).  I generally didn't think I did a great 
job but I did get a phone call from my editor this morning telling me I did do 
a good job, so I guess that part's okay -- mostly I was nervous and didn't 
talk to literally everyone, so I thought it was a wash but I did okay.  But 
that's not the failure here.  The failure is something that no one knew I 
didn't do, except of course Rachel because I tell her everything, and now, I 
suppose if you're reading this, you.  (This marks the first time I've directly 
addressed a reader.  Am I envisioning an audience?  Does this make this 
something other than a diary?)

My failure last night was this: after the party-slash-event ended, after every 
one was filtering out, after I packed up my equipment not having talked to any 
Republican party bigwigs, after I passed by Louisiana's junior senator [Bill 
Cassidy][] saying good bye to some people, I thought that was that.  But lo -- 
Senator Cassidy and his wife were walking to their car behind me.  Lo -- they 
were never more than thirty feet from my back as I walked out into the lobby, 
as I walked through the parking lot.  Lo -- I could've turned around at any 
time and said, "Senator Cassidy, I have some questions for you" -- but I 
didn't do that.  And that feels like a failure, even though at the time I told 
myself that I didn't do it because they were done, and I didn't want to be one 
of those journalists that hounds people.  But I think that is, sometimes, what 
journalism is.  I remember a phrase from the book *Sound Recording* that I 
still need to finish and return to the station that states I'm not there to be 
anyone's friend.  Which is true -- I'm there to inform the public.  But also I 
have trouble ignoring the subject's humanity, I guess?  I'm not sure, but I 
wasn't quite comfortable, and I think (I pray) it was more than my new-at-this 
nerves.

Just in case it was those nerves though, I'm adding this experience to the 
do-it-differently-next-time pile, and maybe I'll start talking more to 
strangers.  I need to get good at that.

[David Vitter]: http://www.davidvitter.com/home
[Bill Cassidy]: http://www.cassidy.senate.gov/

*P.S.  I just found out through writing this entry that "David Vitter" and 
"Bill Cassidy" have the same number of characters.  Fun fact, I guess.*
