---
title: Atlas Shrugged, pt. III
layout: post
date: 20170816 14:09 -0700
categories: readlist
---

I couldn't do it, yall.  I couldn't finish *Atlas Shrugged.*  Honestly, the
biggest problem wasn't the politics or any of that; it was the
heavy-handedness with which Rand described her characters and had them
interact.  I quit in the middle of Dagny's track-down of the engineer from
Twentieth Century Motor Company, because every single person in the chain is
the same person: sniveling, degenerate, constantly babbling about themselves
and how "it's not my fault that I failed," which I suppose is Rand's
characterization of the socialistic/anti-objectivist type, but which for me
just grated.  What I'm saying is, I'm in favor of a lot of social welfare
programs and shared-ownership schemes; I think that laissez-faire capitalism
is inherently flawed in the way it rewards those who seek short-term profit
over long-term durability, and in the way it encourages monopolistic business
practices that end up causing huge income inequalities, which are
self-perpetuating and self-sustaining; and *I* hated the non-Dagny-Taggarts,
the non-Hank-Reardens of the book too.

In fact, by setting up such a fictitious (I mean *fictitious* in that it
would never actually happen; *Atlas Shrugged* is a novel-length straw man, as
far as I can tell) dichotomy between the golden capitalist gods and the
sniveling worms of everyone else, Rand reduces her book to mere propoganda
for her philosophy.  It's worked, obviously, because her novel is expressly
pitched at people of the age where they really think they know everything,
and that people can get ahead merely by virtue of their business acumen or
intelligence; maybe since I'm reading it a bit older I can see through that
lie.  The fact is that many people (to borrow a phrase that has been making
the rounds more since the inauguration) are born on third base, and Rand is
not just assuming, but proclaiming loudly that they hit a triple.

That's not to say that Rand doesn't have some salient points.  Her insistance
on an objective reality and an absolute truth are admirable, in my opinion:
we should spend more time on debates reaching a consensus on the absolute
facts of a matter before sparring on our viewpoints.  I wonder how Rand would
feel about today's Republican party that claims to hold her so dear to its
heart: how would she feel about InfoWars using fear and conspiracy to sell
quack cures, for example? how would she feel about the party of Trump, whose
reality is a forever-shifting hurricane of bullshit and doublespeak?  Would
she ignore all of the right's propoganda, which is increasingly reaching
Soviet levels of insidiousness, because Republicans claim to favor a free
capitalist marketplace?  Would she embrace her proteges?

I have no idea.  But I haven't been able to concentrate on the story of
*Atlas Shrugged* these almost-three-hundred pages because of all my
questions.  Maybe I'll try to crack this nut again in a calmer political era,
but for now -- *shrug*.

*This post is part three of a series on Atlas Shrugged.  Check out parts
[one][] and [two][] if you want.*

[one]: {% post_url 2017-08-04-atlas-shrugged-1 %}
[two]: {% post_url 2017-08-07-atlas-shrugged-ii %}
