---
title: Atlas shrugged, pt. II
format: post
date: 20170807 14:00:00 -0700
categories: readlist
---

I've made it to Chapter IX: The Sacred and the  Profane.  I've just finished the violent sex scene  between Dagny Taggart and Hank Rearden,  consummating the dance they've been circling  around each other since they began working on what  became the John Galt line, at the end of the first  successful run on that line.  I'm checking in because  of the conversation Dagny and Rearden had with  Ellis Wyatt in his home, looking over his oil field;  during it I wondered how Ayn Rand would've  responded to the climate change crisis we're facing.

Wyatt is an oil man; his house perches on a hill  above a wide berth of oil field.  During dinner, he  mentions that soon he'll have oil enough for  thousands of years (or something to that effect)  because of the new process he's developed to extract  oil from shale.  The thing is, since 1957 (when the  book was published), we've developed a process to  extract oil from shale, and it has done great things  for industry and all; however, it's also precipitated  great harm to the environment in terms of ruined  ecosystems and increased greenhouse gases, which  (as we all should know) are really fucking up our  futures on this planet.  But of course, for Rand's  characters, what's most important is profit --- my  question is, in the short- or long-term?

When the story dealt only with Taggart's rail line and  Rearden's steel mills, with the increased productivity  a new, better (if untested, see my previous post)  metal, I was frustrated along with them at the  bureaucratic bullshit in the form of laws that  enforced state-wide monopolies and forbade people to  own more than one business: of course those are  anticompetitive and ridiculous laws meant only to  enforce the status quo while playing lip service to  "greater equity."  Where Rand loses me, however, is  in the idea that all business, all profit, is inherently  good *of its own sake*, in a vacuum outside of the  concerns of the society or ecology around it.

The plain fact of the matter is that there are many  people (and, for that matter, animals) that have no  say in the way things as a whole are run, because  they have not had the opportunities the Dagny  Taggarts and Hank Reardens of the world have had.   Rand's thinking, as far as I can tell, leads directly to  the prosperity-gospel rationalizing of poverty as an  indicator of moral corruption, and the idea that  people deserve whatever it is they have, which is  simply and demonstratively untrue: for every rags- to-riches story of a young upstart with a heart of gold  who makes his way to the very shining top of  industry, for every fall-from-grace story of a corrupt  oligarch who meets his just deserts[^1] by being  found out, there are hundreds if not thousands of  stories about people who stay in their socioeconomic  level through their entire lives, whether they're good  or bad, smart or stupid, enterprising or complacent.   We tell ourselves stories of the outliers because  they're novel, but people like Rand seem to think  they're the norm, which is incredibly dangerous.  In  fact, I'd say that kind of thinking led us directly here,  in 2017, to rising sea levels, obesity and opioid  epidemics, a dismal international diplomacy outlook,  Brexit, and Donald Trump.

So I'd love to bring Ayn Rand back from the dead and  begin by asking her what she thinks about climate  change.  Would she maybe change her mind about  the benefits of ceaselessly chasing profit over the health of the planet (which would affect long-term profit), or would she staunchly defend her philosophy of "rational self-interest?"

[^1]: Fun fact: it *is* just *deserts*, one *s*.  It's a  usage of *deserts* that means *being deserving of  something*, and it's still pronounced *desserts!*   WHO KNEW!?

*Addendum, 8/8: I just read the first part of Chapter IX.  WHAT THE F IS WRONG WITH THESE PEOPLE??  They have seriously unhealthy feelings about sex, love and intimacy.  WTF.*
