---
layout: post
title: "Space Battle Lunchtime"
date: 2017-07-10 13:02:00 -0700
categories: review
---

I love comic books.  I love how they're able to live in that space between
books and cinema: they're as visually stimulating as a film, but as portable
and seekable as a book.  You can feel the amount of time put into them, the
love labored out over inking, coloring, writing.  They're great.

The best thing about them is they can be consumed very quickly.  In fact, I
read comic books so fast I almost disappoint myself; I feel like I should take
more time with them, savor the images and stories.  Maybe I should read them
more than once.

I haven't read Natalie Riess's *Space Battle Lunchtime* (volume 1) more than
once, though now that I'm thinking about it I might go for it again tonight.
I just finished *Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom*, after all.  At any rate,
what I'll write now will be first thoughts.

*Space Battle Lunchtime* is a lot of fun.  It's a play on Food Network shows
like *Chopped* or *MasterChef*, but in SPACE!  And with ALIENS!  And
kidnapping and murder thrown in!  It follows an Earthling baker, Peony, who's
cast to the eponymous intergalactic hit cooking contest show after one of the
contestants drops out suddenly.  I thought there'd be some, "Oh look, we're in
space!  It's so strange/interesting/post-scarcity/complicatedly political"
expository stuff at the beginning, but it turns out not to be the case.
Peony's thrown into production along with us and the show gets going.

The copy I read was the first 4 issues of the comic book bound together.  In
it, the show goes through your standard cooking-competition elimination rounds
while hinting at a darker underbelly to the competition.  One of the chefs,
Melonhead, is back from a devastating loss last year, and let's just say he
wants that title.  Between him and the other alien chefs, the ingredients, and
the setting, the comic book is beautifully drawn, as well.  I really like the
style, which to my mind is something like *Steven Universe* or other modern
cartoons -- clean lines, bright colors, a little anime influence.

I think I'll have to re-read this book when I get home to tide me over til I
can find the next one.  It ends when the action is just getting interesting.

## I read it again!

Okay, so I just reread Volume 1 of *Space Battle Lunchtime*, and let me say #1
rule of reading: *read things more than once!*  I got so much more n u a n c e
out of this reading, and could see where the great and the working-on were.

The detail in this book is richly imagined.  Riess obviously watched a lot of
*Chopped* and *Iron Chef* to get the pacing of the cooking scenes down, and
her use of dynamic page composition helps it really feel as though you're
*watching* an intergalactic space competition.  There are loads of other
little goodies, too, like when Peony's handler (I guess that's what she is?
Anyway, she found her for the show) explains the stakes and her clipboard
says, "Explain Stakes."  And the way that the space food is drawn looks alien
and delicious all at once -- I'd love to try some of the dishes that are
featured.

The one thing this novel is missing out on is character development.  When the
show isn't rolling, Peony hangs out with the crew and with who I think is
going to be a love interest, another competitor named Neptunia.  I got the
feeling that I was supposed to be getting to know these characters in these
scenes, but the pacing is a little slow and the dialog a little too generic
for me to really know anything about them.  That said, most cooking shows we
don't know anything at all about the contestants other than where they're from
and that they love cooking, so I wasn't expecting too much
character-development-wise.  It is cool that Riess is working to add another
dimension to what could easily have been just a fun take on cooking
competition shows.

The next volume (I think of a two-volume series) isn't at my library yet, but
it's processing.  I'll reserve it and write about it in a new post when I can!
